Welcome back. This next section
is all about ML Pipelines.
No, not those kind of pipelines.
Machine Learning Pipelines.
ML Pipelines are the heart
of any Production ML system.
You're going to learn all
about them right now.
In this lesson, we'll
begin to introduce
ML Pipelines and the
concept of MLOps.
Now allow us to see how
pipeline orchestrators
sequence and schedule ML tasks
to implement the entire
ML training process.
We'll then look at the example of
TensorFlow Extended or TFX,
which is a widely
adopted framework
for creating ML Pipelines.
What do we mean by the
phrase ML Pipeline?
Well, remember the
iterative ML workflow
that we talked about previously.
ML Pipeline is a
software architecture
to implement exactly that.
Automating, monitoring,
and maintaining
this ML workflow from
data to a trained model.
ML Pipelines form a key component
of MLOps architectures.
This slide shows one version
of what an ML
Pipeline looks like,
which was put together by
an industry group,
the CD Foundation.
There are some differences
between different
pipeline architectures,
but in general they look
something like this.
You'll notice that they basically
mirror the ML
development process.
Starting with data ingestion
and ending with a trained model.
That's by design
since they need to
encapsulate and
formalize that process.
ML Pipelines are almost always
directed cyclic graph or DAGs.
Although in some
advanced cases they
can sometimes includes cycles.
A DAG is a collection of all
the tasks you want to run
sequenced in a way that reflects
their relationships
and dependencies.
Notice that in this graph
the edges are directed
and there are no cycles.
That makes this graph a DAG.
Orchestrators are responsible for
scheduling the
various components in
an ML Pipeline based on
dependencies defined by a DAG.
Orchestrators help with
pipeline automation.
Examples include
Argo and Airflow,
and Celery and
Luigi and Kubeflow.
TFX is an open-source end
to end Machine Learning platform,
and it's what we use at Google.
A TFX Pipeline is a sequence of
scalable components that can
handle large volumes of data.
Starting on the left,
we ingest data and then we move
to Data Validation and we do
some feature engineering.
We train a model, we validate it.
If it's better than what we
already have in production,
we're going to push
it to production.
Finally, we're
serving predictions.
The sequence of components
are designed for
scalable high performance
Machine Learning tasks.
In this course, you'll be
using TFX to implement
real ML Pipelines exactly
as you would for
Production Systems.
TFX in production
components are built
on top of open-source libraries,
such as Tensorflow
Data Validation,
which you'll also learn
about later this week.
Tensorflow Transform.
We shall also be working
with extensively
later in this course and others,
like Tensorflow Model Analysis.
Components in the orange here,
leverage those Libraries and form
your DAG as you sequence
these components and set up
the dependency between them,
you create your DAG,
which is your ML Pipeline.
This is what we refer to
as the Hello World of TFX.
We start on the left
with our data and we're
going to ingest our data with
a TFX component
called ExampleGen.
All the boxes in orange that you
see here are TFX components.
In fact, these are
components that come
with TFX when you just
do a PIP install.
Next, we generate
statistics for our data.
We want to know the
ranges of our features,
if they're numerical features,
if they're categorical features,
we want to know what are
the valid categories
and so forth.
What are the types
of our features?
Example Validator is used to
look for problems in our data.
SchemaGen is used to generate
a schema for our data
across our feature vector.
Transform will do
feature engineering.
Tuner and Trainer
are used to train
a model and to tune the
hyper-parameters for that model.
Evaluator is used to do
deep analysis of the
performance of our model.
We'll talk about what we mean
by deep analysis a
little bit later.
Infra Validator is used to
make sure that we can actually
run predictions using our model
on the infrastructure
that we have.
For example, do we
have enough memory?
If all of that passes
and the model actually
performs better than what we
might already have in production.
Then Pusher pushes the
model to Production.
What does that mean?
Well, we might be pushing
to a repository like
Tensorflow HUB and
then using our model
later for maybe
transfer learning.
We're generating Embeddings.
We could be pushing
to TensorFlow JS.
If we're going to be
using our model in
a web browser or a
Node.js application.
We could push to
TensorFlow Lite and use
our model in a mobile
application or on an IOT device.
Or we could push to
TensorFlow Serving and
UserModel on a server or
maybe a serving cluster.
The key points
here, first of all,
Production ML Pipelines are
more than just ML code.
They're ML development and
software development and
a formalized process for
running that sequence
of tasks end to end,
in a maintainable
and scalable way.
TFX is an open-sourced end to
end ML platform that we'll
be using in this course.